'To begin with, the mQG model is built based on a transformer architecture, which is further fine-tuned on a narrative question dataset, while incorporating additional losses. The model aims to generate multiple, mutually dissimilar questions with this training process. The first step in the proposed method is the question generation. Starting off with an initial question, more contextually related questions are sequentially generated. Each subsequent newly generated question is referenced against the previous questions to ensure diversity among the generated questions. \n\nNext, to ensure the diversity of the generated questions, a Diversity Maximization Loss (DML) is employed. DML is designed to increase the semantic distance between the last question generated and the previous ones. Therefore, each question differs from the others, maximizing the semantic diversity.  \n\nFurthermore, in order to generate questions with high quality, Maximum Question Similarity Loss (MQS) is introduced. MQS is used upon the set of questions to increase the semantic similarity between the newly generated question and context while decreasing the similarity between the new question and previous ones. This process ensures that all questions are contextually relevant and diverse from each other. \n\nFinally, after the question generation phase, an answerability evaluation comes into play. An Answerability Evaluation Model (AEM) is introduced to determine whether the generated question is answerable from the context, whether it has an explicit or implicit answer present in the context, or if it is unanswerable. AEM is trained to label these categories, following which, the generated questions are ranked based on their answerability and quality. \n\nIn summary, this unique combination of features in our method - diversity maximizing loss, maximum question similarity loss, and answerability evaluation model, leads to an effective process for generating multiple, diverse, quality, and answerable questions from a given context, thereby addressing the limitations and shortcomings of the existing QG techniques in the domain. \n\nThis method could be improved upon by enhancing the semantic understanding of the system especially for unanswerable questions or introducing more sophisticated mechanisms to adapt to different context scenarios.'