"Our proposed method begins with defining and identifying span representations. We use a sliding window to create all possible spans in a sentence and represent each span using a dual-channel mechanism. In the first channel, we use a novel syntactic span generation algorithm, which leverages the inherent grammatical structure of the sentence and the dependencies among words to generate span candidates that are syntactically coherent and meaningful. The second channel operates in the semantic domain, where part-of-speech (POS) information is utilized to generate span candidates. The idea here is to exploit the fact that aspects and opinions in a review usually conform to certain POS patterns. \n\nOnce we have created our dual-channel span representations, we apply a series of prediction layers. The purpose of the prediction layer is three-fold - to predict which spans in the sentence correspond to aspect terms, which correspond to opinion terms and the sentiment polarity of each span. The double-layer BiLSTM layer is utilized to capture the interaction between these two channels and together they contribute to the final span representations.\n\nFor this, we use two separate BiLSTM layers - the first one operates at the span level, where the input to the layer is the dual-channel span representations. It aims to encode the interaction of syntactic and POS semantic information within each span. The second LSTM layer operates at the sentence level, wherein the outputs of the first BiLSTM layer are used as input. This helps in encoding global interaction between different spans in the sentence. \n\nFinally, we calculate a context-weighted representation for each span. The span representations and the context-weighted representations are then combined to predict the three objectives - aspect terms, opinion terms, and sentiment polarity. \n\nTo assess our model's performance, we conduct extensive experiments on two public aspect sentiment triplet extraction (ASTE) datasets and compare the results with several state-of-the-art systems. Our method significantly outperforms other methods, demonstrating that the dual-channel span generation method can effectively and efficiently extract meaningful spans and accurately perform the ASTE task. \n\nWhile the span-based methods usually suffer from high computational cost and excessive noise, our proposed method effectively mitigates these issues by narrowing down the span candidates with linguistic priors, hence able to model the syntactic and POS patterns observed in aspects and opinions, and successfully improve the performance on the ASTE task."