The development of general-domain neural machine translation (NMT) methods has advanced signiﬁcantly in recent years, but the lack of naturalness and musical constraints in the outputs makes them unable to produce singable lyric translations. This paper bridges the singability quality gap by formalizing lyric translation into a constrained translation problem, converting theoretical guidance and practical techniques from translatology literature to promptdriven NMT approaches, exploring better adaptation methods, and instantiating them to an English-Chinese lyric translation system. Our model achieves 99.85%, 99.00%, and 95.52% on length accuracy, rhyme accuracy, and word boundary recall. In our subjective evaluation, our model shows a 75% relative enhancement on overall quality, compared against naive ﬁnetuning 1 .With the globalization of entertainment, it is becom- output correctly translates the source, it ignores all ing increasingly common for people to appreciate the criteria that matter to make the output singable: songs in foreign languages. Obtaining singable lyric translations can facilitate the globalization of the music publishing industry to further promote the growth of its $5.9 billion USD market size (Veriﬁed Market Research, 2022).However, obtaining singable lyrics from MT systems is challenging.In contrast, the singable translation in the third row outperforms the MT output in all four aspects, all while maintaining translation ﬁdelity: it perfectly aligns with each musical note, has the same end-rhyme pattern for the two sentences (green text), a natural stop at the musical pause, and higher naturalness. \n Lyric/Poetry Translation. Designing domainspeciﬁc MT systems for poetic text translation, e.g., poetry and lyrics, is an emerging and underexplored topic in MT. Two previous works conducted pioneering research on lyrics (Guo et al., 2022) andpoetry (Ghazvininejad et al., 2018) translation separately by adopting a similar methodology of adjusting beam scores during beam search (referred to as biased decoding) to encourage the generation of outputs with desired constraints. However, there is plenty of room for improvement. As will be shown in later sections, biased decoding not only fails at effectiveness of control, but also negatively impacts text quality and other simultaneously-controlled aspects. Additionally, the inclusion of controlling aspects is insufﬁciently comprehensive. For example, GagaST (Guo et al., 2022) omits controls for rhyme, but rhyming is actually a critical desired property for song translations (Strangways, 1921).Research on building lyricspeciﬁc language models shows the effectiveness of prompt-based control for outputs’ length, rhyme, stress pattern, and theme (Li et al., 2020; Ma et al., 2021; Xue et al., 2021; Ormazabal et al., 2022; Liu et al., 2022). However, several aspects remain to be enhanced.First, the prompts’ forms vary: some works add prompts by additive embedding vectors (Li et al., 2020; Ma et al., 2021; Xue et al., 2021; Liu et al., 2022) and others by the preﬁx of input (Ormazabal et al., 2022; Liu et al., 2022). The lack of comparison makes it difﬁcult to conclude the best prompt form for different control aspects. In addition, prior works did not control for some aspects in a well-designed manner. For example, (Liu et al., 2022) enhances the music–lyric compatibility by controlling the number of syllables of each word in the output. However, music constraints are usually not that tight so that such ﬁnelevel controlling might be unnecessary. Additionally, we found that unﬁtted rhyme prompts damage the output quality. However, we have not seen research suggesting how to choose the best suitable end-rhyme without naively traversing all possible rhyme prompts.We attribute the inability of singable lyric translation from general-domain MT systems to the completely different goal of lyric translation compared with normal interlingual translation (Low, 2005): without considering the rhythm, note values, and stress patterns from music, song translations that seem good on paper may become awkward when singing. When the auditory perception is dominated by music (Golomb, 2005), the goal of trans-lation is not again predominated by preserving the semantics of source text (Franzon, 2008), but requires skilled handling of non-semantic aspects (Low, 2013) to attain the music–verbal unity, making it even an unusually complex task for human translators (Low, 2003). Theory and techniques from translatology provide valuable guidelines for our method design. Particularly, the “Pentathlon Principle” (§3.1) from (Low, 2003) is a widely accepted theoretical guidance to obtain singable song translations (Franzon, 2008; Cheng, 2013; Stopar, 2016; Si-yang, 2017; Opperman et al., 2018; Sardiña, 2021; Pidhrushna, 2021). In addition, some practical translation tricks have also been mentioned in (Low, 2003), e.g., determining the last word ﬁrst and from back to front when translating sentences in rhyme.The deﬁciency of indomain data requires a powerful foundation model to ensure translation quality. We found large-scale denoising sequence-to-sequence pretraining (Lewis et al., 2019) a great candidate in our problem setting because it has been shown to be particularly effective in enhancing model’s performance on text generation tasks such as summarization (Akiyama et al., 2021) and translation (Liu et al., 2020; Tang et al., 2020), and also on domain-speciﬁc applications, e.g., (Yang et al., 2020; Soper et al., 2021; Obonyo et al., 2022). However, as indicated in (Liu et al., 2020), the effectiveness of pretraining is related to the amount of monolingual data. In our case where in-domain data are relatively deﬁcient, adopting the same strategy for adaptation might not be optimal.Back-translation (BT) and its variants can effectively boost the performance of NMT models (Sennrich et al., 2015; Artetxe et al., 2017; Lample et al., 2018), and also show superior effectiveness in domain adaptation in low-resource settings (Hoang et al., 2018; Wei et al., 2020; Zhang et al., 2022). It is potentially a better adaptation method and may lead to higher output naturalness, which is required by singable translations.Adding prompts during ﬁne-tuning shows strong performance on lexical-constrained-MT (Susanto et al., 2020; Chousa and Morishita, 2021; Wang et al., 2022), as well as broad applicability on various controlling aspects such as output length (Lakew et al., 2019) and the beginning word of output (Li et al., 2022).Compared to some earlier research that adds lexical constraints during beam search (Hokamp and Liu, 2017; Post and Vilar, 2018), the prompt based solution has a faster decoding speed and higher output quality (Susanto et al., 2020), hence might be the better option in our problem setting.