Contrastively trained vision-language models have achieved remarkable progress in vision and language representation learning. However, recent research has highlighted severe limitations of these models in their ability to perform compositional reasoning over objects, attributes, and relations. Scene graphs have emerged as an effective way to understand images compositionally. These are graphstructured semantic representations of images that contain objects, their attributes, and relations with other objects in a scene. In this work, we consider the scene graph parsed from text as a proxy for the image scene graph and propose a graph decomposition and augmentation framework along with a coarse-to-fine contrastive learning objective between images and text that aligns sentences of various complexities to the same image. We also introduce novel negative mining techniques in the scene graph space for improving attribute binding and relation understanding. Through extensive experiments, we demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach that significantly improves attribute binding, relation understanding, systematic generalization, and productivity on multiple recently proposed benchmarks (For example, improvements up to 18% for systematic generalization, 16.5% for relation understanding over a strong baseline), while achieving similar or better performance than CLIP on various general multimodal tasks. Recent progress in contrastive learning using largescale image-text data for joint image-text representation learning has led to Vision-Language models (VLMs) like CLIP (Radford et al., 2021) and ALIGN (Jia et al., 2021) that show remarkable zeroshot classification and retrieval capabilities. In particular, they struggle with binding correct attributes to the correct objects, understanding relations between objects, generalizing systematically to unseen combinations of concepts and to larger and more complex sentences. Some works have made progress on this problem. Yuksekgonul et al. (2022) show that hard negative mining of images and text during fine-tuning is a promising first step to improving compositionality.