Knowledge transfer can boost neural machine translation (NMT), for example, by finetuning a pretrained masked language model (LM). However, it may suffer from the forgetting problem and the structural inconsistency between pretrained LMs and NMT models. Knowledge distillation (KD) may be a potential solution to alleviate these issues, but few studies have investigated language knowledge transfer from pretrained language models to NMT models through KD. In this paper, we propose Pretrained Bidirectional Distillation (PBD) for NMT, which aims to efficiently transfer bidirectional language knowledge from masked language pretraining to NMT models. Its advantages are reflected in efficiency and effectiveness through a globally defined and bidirectional context-aware distillation objective. Bidirectional language knowledge of the entire sequence is transferred to an NMT model concurrently during translation training. Specifically, we propose self-distilled masked language pretraining to obtain the PBD objective. We also design PBD losses to efficiently distill the language knowledge, in the form of token probabilities, to the encoder and decoder of an NMT model using the PBD objective. Extensive experiments reveal that pretrained bidirectional distillation can significantly improve machine translation performance and achieve competitive or even better results than previous pretrain-finetune or unified multilingual translation methods in supervised, unsupervised, and zero-shot scenarios. Empirically, it is concluded that pretrained bidirectional distillation is an effective and efficient method for transferring language knowledge from pretrained language models to NMT models. Initializing parameters by a pretrained masked language model (LM) (Kenton and Toutanova, 2019) is a knowledge transfer method widely applied to natural language processing tasks. However, the pretrain-finetune paradigm may suffer from potential issues. In this paper, we propose Pretrained Bidirectional Distillation (PBD) for NMT, which can alleviate the difference caused by pretraining (mask language modeling, perturbed sentences) and MT fine-tuning (full sentences) in the pretrain-finetune paradigm and boost large-scale translation training. In pretrained bidirectional distillation, language knowledge acquired from pretraining is continu-ously transferred to the NMT model. Knowledge transfer runs through the training process to address the forgetting problem.