Kreutzer et al. (2022) reports mC4’s high ratio of non-linguistic content and sentences in incorrect languages, with African languages being of particular concern. The authors report significant loss (up to 50%) in recall of correct in-language sentences as they increased precision of their automatic language classification. Our manual audit of mC4 corroborates the documented issues. We highlight three important findings: (1) The distribution of mC4 document sources has a long tail. Many individual news publications yield thousands of documents in the mC4. (2) Documents from news publications are more likely to be of higher quality i.e., both inlanguage and grammatical compared to documents from other web sources. (3) Some documents are from websites which translate content using online translation tools. Such documents are often a mix of in-language and noisy or non-linguistic text, and may best be filtered at sentence-level. Xue et al. (2021)’s inclusion of the URL each document is sourced from makes the mC4 corpus even more useful as a data source. Commonly, multiple articles are collected from the same base website, e.g., news publications. For many news publications that provide a sitemap, we find that there are fewer articles in mC4 than is actually available on the websites. Further, mC4 only covers up to August, 2020 so updating the crawls up to the current day yields more data.Following previous works (Alabi et al., 2022; Adebara et al., 2022), we include certain non-African languages in our pretraining data. Specifically, we include over 240, 000 articles newly crawled from 10 African news websites reporting in English, French and Portuguese. We also include a sample of 1.5M Wikipedia articles for English and French, as well as Wikipedia articles written in Egyptian Arabic. For the African languages, we include all Wikipedia articles. Finally, we deduplicate using the document URLs. In doing this, we prioritize news articles in our focused crawls over their existing counterparts in mC4.